id - Strava ID of the athlete

date - Date of the Strava activity

distance - Distance of the training session in km

mov_time - The moving time feature on Strava is used for all activities that don't depend on fair competition (races and segments). We calculate moving time in two ways. Eithe the athlete adds pause times manually pressing a button on the device or Strava recognizes a pause given some moving threshold. The latter is not defined for cycling activities.

from Strava Glossary : "The moving time feature on Strava is used for all running activities that don't depend on fair competition (races and segments). We calculate moving time in two ways.

    If the runner doesn't use the pause feature on their Garmin device, we will automatically detect when the runner is resting, and we will calculate moving time and pace using only GPS data. The moving threshold is anything faster than 30 minute mile pace for running activities.
    If the runner chooses to pause their run activity on their Garmin device, we will honor that choice and represent moving time according to the time and pace shown on the GPS device.""

elevation - Amount of meters of the route which contains elevation.

relativeEffort - Intensity across sport types. A Strava specific metric which tells the athlethe how intense his activity (training) was compared other sports activities.

avg_power_weig : Adjusted avg. power of the ride where a Strava algorithm corrects possible outliers in the data due to environmental impacts such as terrain, grade, wind and other factors. 

from Strava Glossary : When you ride with a power meter, you'll notice how your power jumps all over the place based on the terrain, grade, wind, and other factors. Weighted Average Power looks at all of this variation and provides an average power for your ride that is a better indicator of your effort than simply taking your average power. It is our best guess at your average power if you rode at the exact same wattage the entire ride.



work_total - The sum of watts generated during the rid, expressed in kilojoules(kJ).
from Strava Glossary :  There is a close 1–to–1 ratio with Total Work and Calories expended during a ride.

training_load - Indicator for how long an athlete should rest after an activity. Power of a ride is compared to an individual functional threshold power. The latter is defined as the highest power output a road cyclist can preserve in a semi-steady state for approximately 60 minutes. \cite{Borszcz2018}

from Strava Glossary : We calculate Training Load by comparing your power during your ride to your FTP and determining how much load you put on your body during the workout. Training Load is a great way to determine how much rest you need after your workouts.


    About 24 hours – 125 and lower
    36-48 hours – 125-250
    At least 3 days – 250-400
    At least 5 days – 400+


intensity - An indicator to express the level of difficulty of a ride compared to the functional threshhold power. E.g. if the weigh. avg. power was 250W and your FTP 300W the intensity would be 83%. For short and intensive rides such as sprints values greater than 100% are possible.
from Strava Glossary : Intensity is our way of showing how difficult a ride was as compared to your FTP. We look at your Weighted Average Power for the ride and compare it to your FTP. If your Weighted Average Power was 250W and your FTP 300W, the Intensity would be 83%. It's very possible to have an Intensity of over 100% if the ride was shorter than an hour.

    Endurance / Recovery Ride – 65% and lower
    Moderate Ride – 65-80%
    Tempo Ride – 80-95%
    Time Trial or Race – 95-105%
    Short Time Trial or Race – 105% and higher

estAvgPower - Another estimate of the avg power of an activity generated by Strava. No further information about calculation were found.

from Strava Glossary : When you ride with a power meter, you'll notice how your power jumps all over the place based on the terrain, grade, wind, and other factors. Weighted Average Power looks at all of this variation and provides an average power for your ride that is a better indicator of your effort than simply taking your average power. It is our best guess at your average power if you rode at the exact same wattage the entire ride.

avg_speed - Average speed of the ride.
max_speed - Max speed of the ride.
avg_cadence - Average pedalling rate, average number of revolutions of the crank during the activity.
max_cadence - Max pedalling rate, maximal number of revolutions of the crank during the activity.
avg_hearRate - Average heart rate during the ride.
max_heartRate - Max heart rate during the ride.
avg_power - Average power in watt generated during the ride.

from Strava Glossary : "Average power reflects your average power value during a ride, expressed in Watts (a measure of how much energy you are exerting onto the pedals). This is inclusive of the entire ride, and takes coasting into account as well. Average power is most accurately measured with a power meter, though if you don't have a power meter we give a rough approximation through our power estimator."

max_power - Max power in watt generated during the ride.
avg_calories - Average calories burned during the ride.
avg_temperature - Average temperature during the ride.
avg_elap_time - 
from Strava Glossary : Elapsed time is used for the pace analysis of all running races, laps view, and segment efforts. Elapsed time measures the total elapsed time of the run, including stops and pauses. We believe that this is the most fair and accurate way to represent pace for workout efforts and competitive running activities.


Energy Output - An indicator for the amount of work an athlete has done during a ride expressed in kilojoules(KJ). Mixture of how fast, how much  and with how much force an athlete is pedaling.

from Strava Glossary : Energy Output measures the amount of work you've done during a ride, expressed in kilojoules (KJ). It is a factor of how much you're pedaling, how fast you're pedaling and how much force you're exerting on the pedals (measured in W). Power output is most accurately taken from a power meter, but if you don't have a power meter we give a rough approximation through our power estimator.


bicycle_computer_model - Model of the bicycle computer.
